## Introduction

One of the most useful yet least understood features of PositionedObjects is their two-way relationship with [AttachableLists](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Math.AttachableList#Two_Way_Relationships "FlatRedBall.Math.AttachableList"). Before reading this article you may want to check [this article](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Math.AttachableList#Two_Way_Relationships "FlatRedBall.Math.AttachableList") to understand how two-way relationships work. The RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo method does essentially what the name says - it removes the calling PositionedObject from any [AttachableLists](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Math.AttachableList "FlatRedBall.Math.AttachableList") that it belongs to. This can include:

-   Internal lists in the engine, like the AutomaticallyUpdatedSprites list in the [SpriteManager](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.SpriteManager "FlatRedBall.SpriteManager").
-   [Scenes](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Scene "FlatRedBall.Scene")
-   Any lists that you might create, such as lists of Entities.
-   Parent lists. Keep in mind that calling this method will NOT set the calling object's Parent property to null. This usually doesn't matter because the most common practice is to throw this object away (lose its reference) after the method is called. But just in case, remember that this will create a "lost child" relationship.

## When to use RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo

The answer to this is - almost never. The reason for this is because it is more common and readable to add and remove objects through their respective managers. The following two categories of objects are the most common implementations of the PositionedObject class:

1.  FlatRedBall types which inherit from PositionedObject. These include the Sprite class, Text class, and all of the different shapes (AxisAlignedRectangle, Circle, etc). Every one of these objects has a Manager associated with it.
2.  [Entities](/frb/docs/index.php?title=Category:FlatRedBall_XNA_Tutorials#Entity_Tutorials "Category:FlatRedBall XNA Tutorials") inheriting from PositionedObject. Usually these entities are added to the SpriteManager when created, then removed from the SpriteManager when destroyed.

The important thing to note is that any FlatRedBall manager that has a method to remove a PositionedObject **will call RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo internally**. Therefore, if you call the manager's remove method, also calling RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo is redundant. The only time that this method is really needed is if you have a PositionedObject-inheriting object which is **not being managed by a manager**. In that case you may want to call RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo to clear it out of any lists that it may belong to; however, this case is extremely rare.

## RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo and Particles

The [SpriteManager](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.SpriteManager "FlatRedBall.SpriteManager") provides a method to create particle [Sprites](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Sprite "FlatRedBall.Sprite"). Particle [Sprites](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Sprite "FlatRedBall.Sprite") behave slightly differently from other managed objects. When Remove is called on them they are not removed from all lists. The [SpriteManager](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.SpriteManager "FlatRedBall.SpriteManager") stores a list of particle [Sprites](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Sprite "FlatRedBall.Sprite") internally which it cycles to reduce memory allocation and garbage. If RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo is called on a particle [Sprite](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Sprite "FlatRedBall.Sprite"), then that [Sprite](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.Sprite "FlatRedBall.Sprite") will be removed from all lists including the [SpriteManager's](/frb/docs/index.php?title=FlatRedBall.SpriteManager "FlatRedBall.SpriteManager") internal particle list. This can cause difficult to track bugs because this reduces the size of the particle list which can ultimately cause crash bugs if you run out of particles. In short, just as mentioned above, use the appropriate manager's remove method whenever possible instead of calling RemoveSelfFromListsBelongingTo.
